it's 1600 GMT that's 6 p.m. in Gaza and
Israel's prime minister Benyamin
Netanyahu has ordered the military to
submit to the war cabinet a plan for
eliminating Hamas in the southern GZA
city of Rafa you want also once a plan
for evacuating the more than 1.3 million
people Sheltering there but it's unclear
where people trapped there could go
earlier the US president described
Israel's war on Gaza as over the the top
but Israel is clearly undeterred moving
ahead with its bombing campaign and
expanding its offensive further into the
South alham salut is live for us from
Tel Aviv so first of all hamda is the
Australia officials giving any details
about this plan to invade and to
evacuate well we've got a statement from
the Israeli Prime Minister's office a
about this expected operation inside of
Rafa that says quote it is impossible to
achieve the war goal of eliminating
Hamas and leaving four battalions in
Rafa it is clear that a massive
operation inside of Rafa requires the
evacuation of the civilian population
from the combat zones that is why the
Prime Minister directed the Israeli
defense establishment to bring to the
cabinet a dual plan for both the
evacuation of the population and for the
disbanding of the battalions now this
comes after Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu spoke Wednesday night
and vowed that the operation inaa would
be imminent and it comes after strikes
on Thursday hit the southern Palestinian
City intense bombardment resulting in
the deaths of multiple Palestinians this
is something the Israel IES have been
reiterating for months now that they are
going to operate in teraa so the
information is not exactly new but what
is new is that he has asked both the
Army and the defense establishment to
present this plan to the cabinet on how
they are going to move forward with
operating inside of Raa on the ground
but the big question here is where are
these Palestinians supposed to go they
haven't been allowed back to the north
this is something that has been
discussed there's been pressure on
Israel by the Americans to perhaps let
the Palestinians go back to the north
but there is nothing to go back to a
majority of those buildings those homes
have been destroyed so the Israelis are
saying that they're going to evacuate
more than half of the population you're
talking about around a million and a
half Palestinians who've been forced to
flee their homes multiple times and
ending up in Raa which the Israeli Army
had designated as a safe Zone and it is
also worth noting that this is not the
first time the Israeli Army is planning
to attack an area that they have deemed
a safe zone for Palestinians so a lot of
unanswered questions still on how the
Israeli Army is going to go about this
plan and what sort of timeline how long
is this evacuation plan of theirs going
to
be andham we've heard
criticism from the US president talking
about Israel's Warriors over the top
kind of reaction are we getting from
Israeli officials to
that there hasn't been any Israeli
reaction to the president's remarks but
we've also heard from the state
department saying that an operation
inside of Rafa would be disastrous we've
also heard from the National Security
spokesperson John Kirby who said that
the Americans would not support this
military operation where there are
around a million and a half Palestinians
seeking Refuge inside of Rafa but again
the Israelis have said time and time
again that they were going to enter Rafa
the Israeli Army spokesperson had said
months ago that wherever the Israeli
Army identifies a Target they are going
to strike and he singled out Rafa he
said that they were going to go there
not if but just a matter of when so the
Israelis have also said that whatever it
takes to accomplish these military
objectives these military goals they are
going to do and it seems that the
pressure that has been put on the United
States until now all of the words that
the Americans have conveyed have fallen
on deaf ears for on the part of the
Israelis so the Israelis have delayed
this operation reports in Israeli media
are indicating that it will be smaller
perhaps more targeted and precise type
of military moves but it was it's
difficult to conceptualize this when you
have more than a million people who are
in Rafa who have been forced to evacuate
at the words of the Israeli military so
again no reaction to the words from
President Biden but the military is now
drawing up these plans for how they are
apparently going to get the civilian
population out of RA all right there
let's go over to T he joins us from
actually from Rafa right now and a lot
of the talk as you've been hearing far
is about
Israeli plans for an invasion and an
evacuation are you seeing any sign of
that on the ground
there well till now Sammy we do not
really touch or see any kind of
practical developments regarding any
possible ground incursion to Rafa
District but what we have been hearing
the from the Israeli military officials
and political leaders including the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu about a possible military act
to be carried out on the ground here in
Rafa as they have ordered uh the Israeli
Army to prepare a dual plan for number
one evacuating people from Rafa and then
to eliminate the remaining military
brigades that belong to the military
wing of Hamas but that's what the
Palestinians have been completely afraid
of as Palestinians have completely right
now mistrusting what Israel has been
always saying because they find out that
Israel is doing completely the opposite
what they have been ordering people to
do since the beginning of this conflict
as the real challenge right now for all
Gans about the next destination
especially that they have been barely uh
able to struggle to and were struggling
to afford uh the basic necessities here
including their makeshift tent where
they would not be able to carry with
them in their next destination they
might be taken to while the original
residents of Rafa do not know either
where to go specifically that there
might be the next Target for the Israeli
Army but till this very moment there is
no any further details about the plan or
how Israel will force people to leave
Rafa to start the military act on the
ground and at the same time people think
that Israel is using that as a kind of a
to Russia tool in order to force Hamas
to accept all the Israeli demands that
are related to the framework of the
ceasefire tokes that is right now
continuing on Egypt uh uh that are also
supervised by Qatar so people are afraid
of that practical step as the majority
of gaza's population right now have been
cramped into that area and they
completely depend on the humanitarian
supplies being delivered by the United
Nations which is by the way had
threatened and warned about the
possibility of suspending its operations
in Gaz at the end of February if there
is going to be no much uh fund raise
going to be supported for the honora to
keep operating Gaza so Palestinians
right now Raa have facing completely
chaotic options and choices but they do
not have any other thing to do just
simply because they have lost their
houses they are become fully drained
frustrated and now they might be the
next Target which means that there's
going to be much scale loss of life and
a high rate of casualties among
civilians if that practically happened
on the ground all right we'll leave it
there thanks so much T
AB Al jazer senior political analyst
Marwan bashara joins us now live here in
the studio what do you make of this
announcement that the prime minister of
Israel asking the military to prepare a
plan for an invasion and an evacuation
is this an attempt to show the
International Community particularly the
US that hey we are taking preparations
before we actually invade
Rafa yes and we are invading Rafa
contrary to what you the International
Community or the Biden Administration
has been asking us not to do we will do
we will invade and we will take over
Rafa as we play
as we
planned this another snub to the US this
is an absolute snob to the US this is
just the latest of many snobs already
the re the most recent of which was
snobbing secretary blinkin who did
everything possible for the Nano
government including bringing the Arabs
once again to the table including
extracting concessions from the Arab
Partners including extracting
normalization security guarantees
revital izing the Palestinian Authority
and yet Netanyahu would not stop he is
persistent he wants to continue this is
in as far as I can see and the United
States can see the war is over but
Netanyahu insists on playing in the
overtime if you will in order to think
that or in order to to win as he thinks
and how would he win to my mind this is
a very very dangerous phase now of of
the war I mean we've passed through many
dangerous phases of course the death of
tens of thousands but this might
actually lead to a Mass Slaughter of
people in the southern P part of Gaza
and a possible potential expulsion of
many many Palestinians into the Sinai
plus and this is uh very important
underline analytically speaking okay I
think Netanyahu once
to invade Rafa and he wants to get to
the point where he
can make sure all the captives are dead
he wants the captives
dead I don't think he can afford the
captives to be alive because as long as
the captives are alive he is being held
hostage by a part of the Israeli public
of the United States by
Hamas so that he feels that his plans
for Gaza his plans for Palestine are
held captive by the captives the best
way to do it is to continue under the
pretext of destroying Hamas to basically
destroy whatever is left of Hamas but in
the process if the captives die I think
Netanyahu will be liberated from that
burden that he's been on him for the
past four months this will allow him a
free hand to do whatever he wants to do
in Gaza moving forward uh let's come
back to the point of him asking the mil
to prepare a plan for evacuation
evacuation to where is it clear I mean
there doesn't seem to be much
infrastructure for yet another
relocation of over a million
Palestinians within Gaza right
absolutely not any indication from
neighboring countries they want to take
over a million Palestinians look if
we've heard anything certain from the
Egyptians over the past four months is
that while they're look the other way a
Slaughter and genocide is unraveling in
plain sight in Gaza the only thing
they've been warning against is not the
death it's not the slaughter it's not
the war crimes what they've been warning
about is the ethnic cleansing and the
expulsion of Palestinians into the Sinai
to the Egyptian territory so CC in as
far as we know the Egyptian not the
Mexican president insists that there
should be no expulsion of the
Palestinians uh to to Egypt but that
doesn't mean that Netanyahu is not
pushing the Palestinians to such
desperation that they will walk
barefooted to the fence and try to break
in to the Sinai looking for safety
because there is absolutely at this
point in time nowhere safe in Gaza and
on the point that you were analyzing of
the the captives and what that means for
nany's policy what do you make of the
line that we hear from Israeli officials
that no they want to Liberate the
captives through military action they
don't want them
dead tactically speaking right for the
past four months they've been
saying military objectives first
defeating Hamas captive second right and
then they Bridge it by saying the best
way to free the captives is by military
Victory now over the past four months
this proved to be utterly wrong they
couldn't free a single captive through
military operations the only way they
could have done it is through diplomatic
process now the more they got in to
kanun and other places apparently more
than a few captiv have already been
killed by the Israeli strikes right now
if they move to more and more
strongholds in kanun